

===== PAGE 1 =====
TimeEventSynth: Adaptive Cross-Series Anomaly
Augmentation for Low-Label Time-Series Detection
1st Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
2nd Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
3rd Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
4th Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
5th Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
6th Given Name Surname
dept. name of organization (of Aff.)
name of organization (of Aff.)
City, Country
email address or ORCID
Abstract—Time-series anomaly detection often suffers from
limited labeled anomaly events. Although many detectors can
assign anomaly scores to points or subsequences, their perfor-
mance may degrade when only a small fraction of anomaly
windows is available for training, calibration, or threshold
selection. A natural remedy is to augment rare anomaly events by
transferring anomalous patterns from other time series. However,
naive cross-series augmentation can introduce negative transfer:
an anomaly window that is meaningful in one series may be
implausible, mis-scaled, or inconsistent with the local dynamics
of another series.
We present TimeEventSynth, a compatibility-aware cross-
series event augmentation framework for low-label time-series
anomaly detection. The framework extracts labeled anomaly win-
dows, constructs a donor pool of real anomaly events, estimates
donor-recipient compatibility using shape, scale, local-context,
and group-level signals, and then synthesizes recipient-specific
anomaly windows under several transfer policies, including
random oversampling, groupwise all-donor transfer, groupwise
compatible transfer, groupwise strict transfer, and detector-
family heuristic adaptive transfer. Evaluated on a TSB-UAD-
style low-label setting with multiple detector backbones, the
results show that augmentation is detector-dependent: adaptive
and groupwise transfer improve density/tree-style detectors such
as LOF and Isolation Forest, while simple oversampling can be
competitive for reconstruction models and some sequence models
are sensitive to synthetic distribution shift. These findings suggest
that time-series anomaly augmentation should be compatibility-
aware and detector-aware rather than applied as uniform data
expansion.
Index Terms—component, formatting, style, styling, insert
I. INTRODUCTION
Time-series anomaly detection is a fundamental task in
many domains, including industrial monitoring, cloud-system
observability, financial risk analysis, healthcare, transportation,
energy management, and crisis monitoring. In these applica-
tions, a time series records the evolution of a system over
time, and anomalies often correspond to meaningful temporal
events such as equipment faults, traffic incidents, abnormal
user behavior, sudden demand shifts, or emergency situations.
Detecting such events accurately is important because missed
anomalies may delay intervention, while excessive false alarms
can reduce the practical usefulness of a detection system.
Despite extensive progress in time-series anomaly detection,
learning effective detectors remains challenging when labeled
anomaly events are scarce. Many real-world datasets contain
only a small number of labeled anomalous windows, and
the available anomalies may cover only a limited subset of
the possible event patterns. This low-label setting is common
because anomaly annotation requires domain expertise, rare
events occur infrequently, and the same type of abnormal
behavior may appear differently across time series. As a
result, detectors trained or calibrated on the limited observed
anomalies may generalize poorly to unseen events.
A natural solution is data augmentation. Existing augmen-
tation strategies for time series include perturbing existing
subsequences, oversampling labeled anomalies, or generating
synthetic windows through heuristic transformations. These
methods can increase the number of training examples, but
they often fail to exploit a key property of multi-series anomaly
datasets: anomaly events observed in one time series may pro-
vide useful information for another. For example, a spike, level
shift, contextual deviation, or abnormal fluctuation pattern
may be transferable across related sensors, servers, financial
indicators, or operational processes. This suggests that cross-
series event augmentation can be a powerful mechanism for
improving low-label anomaly detection.
However, cross-series augmentation also introduces a cen-
tral risk: negative transfer. An anomaly window that is mean-
ingful in one series may be implausible in another because
the two series differ in scale, variance, shape dynamics,
periodicity, or local context. Directly copying or injecting
anomaly windows without considering such differences may
create synthetic examples that are unrealistic or even harmful.
This problem becomes more severe when the donor and
recipient series come from different datasets or application

===== PAGE 2 =====
groups. Therefore, the key challenge is not merely how to
generate more anomaly windows, but how to decide which
anomaly events can be transferred, to which recipient series,
and under what adaptation policy.
In this paper, we study low-label time-series anomaly de-
tection through compatibility-aware cross-series event aug-
mentation. Rather than designing a new anomaly detector,
we propose an augmentation framework that can be applied
on top of different detector backbones. The framework first
extracts labeled anomaly windows from available training
series and constructs a donor pool of real anomaly events.
It then estimates donor-recipient compatibility using event-
shape similarity, amplitude-scale consistency, local-context
compatibility, and group-level relatedness. Based on these
signals, the framework constructs synthetic anomaly windows
under different transfer policies, ranging from random over-
sampling and all-donor transfer to compatibility-filtered, strict
compatibility-filtered, and detector-family heuristic adaptive
transfer.
The motivation behind our approach is that anomaly aug-
mentation should be both compatibility-aware and detector-
aware. Compatibility awareness is needed because not all
donor events suit every recipient series. Detector awareness
is needed because different anomaly detectors respond dif-
ferently to synthetic data. Some density-based or tree-based
detectors may benefit from compatible synthetic windows that
reshape the local anomaly distribution, while reconstruction-
based models may benefit from broader event oversampling.
In contrast, some sequence models may already learn robust
representations from real data and can be sensitive to synthetic
distribution shift. Therefore, a single uniform augmentation
policy is unlikely to dominate across all detector families.
We evaluate the proposed framework in a TSB-UAD-style
low-label anomaly detection setting using multiple detec-
tor backbones, including classical score-based, density-based,
reconstruction-based, convolutional, sequence-model, and su-
pervised low-label detectors.
The experimental results show that cross-series augmen-
tation is useful but detector-dependent. In particular, group-
wise and adaptive transfer improve several backbones, espe-
cially density/tree-style detectors such as LOF and Isolation
Forest, while simple oversampling remains competitive for
reconstruction-based models and some detectors do not benefit
from synthetic augmentation. These results support our central
claim: effective time-series anomaly augmentation requires
controlled transfer rather than indiscriminate data expansion.
This paper makes the following contributions:
•We formulate low-label time-series anomaly detection as
a cross-series event augmentation problem, where visible
labeled anomaly windows are reused as donor events for
training or calibration under limited anomaly supervision.
•We propose TimeEventSynth, a compatibility-aware aug-
mentation framework that estimates donor-recipient suit-
ability using shape, scale, local-context, and group-level
signals, reducing the risk of harmful cross-series transfer.
•We instantiate multiple augmentation policies, including
random oversampling, all-donor transfer, compatibility-
filtered transfer, strict compatibility-filtered transfer, and
detector-family heuristic adaptive transfer, to enable con-
trolled comparison of data expansion and compatibility-
aware selection.
•We evaluate the framework across multiple anomaly
detector backbones and show that augmentation ef-
fectiveness is detector-dependent, highlighting when
compatibility-aware and adaptive transfer are beneficial
and when synthetic data can hurt.
II. PROBLEMDEFINITION
We study low-label time-series anomaly detection with
cross-series event augmentation. The goal is to improve
anomaly detection performance when only a small number
of labeled anomaly events are available. Unlike standard
augmentation that only perturbs or duplicates existing anomaly
windows within the same series, we consider whether anomaly
events observed in one time series can be transferred to another
series in a controlled manner.
A. Low-Label Time-Series Anomaly Detection
Let
D=X 1, X2, . . . , XN
denote a collection of univariate time series. Each series
Xi = (xi,1, xi,2, . . . , xi,Ti)
containsT i observations. Each time point may have a binary
anomaly labely i,t ∈ {0,1}, wherey i,t = 1denotes an
anomalous point andy i,t = 0denotes a normal point. In
the low-label setting, labels are only partially visible. We use
a visibility indicatorm i,t ∈ {0,1}, wherem i,t = 1means
that the label at timetis available for training, validation, or
calibration, andm i,t = 0means that the label is hidden during
model development.
A visible anomaly event is a maximal contiguous segment
whose labels are visible and anomalous:
ai,j =
 
si,j, ei,j, Xi[si,j :e i,j]

,
wheres i,j ande i,j are the start and end indices of the event.
The set of visible anomaly events in seriesX i is denoted by
Avis
i ={a i,1, ai,2, . . . , ai,Mi }.
The donor pool is constructed only from visible anomaly
events in the training split:
Adonor =
[
Xi∈Dtrain
Avis
i .
Given a detector backboneF θ, the output is an anomaly
score sequence
Fθ(Xi, t)→R,

===== PAGE 3 =====
where larger scores indicate stronger anomaly likelihood.
The predicted anomaly regions are obtained by applying a
threshold or event-level decision rule to the score sequence.
Our objective is to improve event-level detection performance
under limited labeled anomalies by augmenting the available
training or calibration data.
B. Cross-Series Event Augmentation
Cross-series event augmentation constructs synthetic
anomaly windows for a recipient series using anomaly
windows extracted from donor series. For a recipient series
Xr, a donor anomaly windowa d,j ∈ A d may be transferred
toX r if the donor event is considered compatible with the
recipient series. The resulting synthetic event is written as
˜a∗r, k=T(a∗d, j, X r, ℓr,k),
whereTis a transfer operator andℓ r,k is the recipient event
context constructed from visible low-label anomaly windows.
The augmented anomaly set forX r is
eA ∗r=A ∗r∪˜a∗r,1,˜a∗r,2, . . . ,˜a r,fMr
.
The augmented data may be used for detector training,
detector calibration, threshold selection, or synthetic-positive
separation, depending on the detector backbone.
The key difficulty is that anomaly events are not univer-
sally transferable. A donor anomaly window may be useful
for a recipient series when the two series share compatible
shape dynamics, amplitude scale, local statistical context, or
group-level semantics. However, the same donor window may
become harmful if it is injected into an incompatible recipient
series. Therefore, cross-series event augmentation must solve
both a synthesis problem and a transfer-selection problem.
C. Donor-Recipient Compatibility
We define a donor-recipient compatibility function
C(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)∈[0,1],
which estimates whether donor eventa d,j can be plausibly
transferred to recipient seriesX r at event contextℓ r,k. Com-
patibility may combine several signals:
C=α sCshape +α aCamp +α cCcontext +α gCgroup,
whereC shape measures event-shape similarity,C amp mea-
sures amplitude or scale consistency,C context measures local
statistical compatibility, andC group captures whether donor
and recipient series belong to related datasets or groups. The
weightsα s, αa, αc, αg control the contribution of each signal.
Compatibility can serve as a soft weight or hard filter.
In a permissive transfer policy, most donor events may be
considered valid, whereas a stricter policy allows transfer only
if
C(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)≥τ C,
whereτ C is a compatibility threshold. This filtering is
intended to reduce negative transfer from implausible donor-
recipient pairs.
D. Objective and Protocol Constraints
The objective is to improve held-out anomaly detection
under limited visible anomaly labels. LetM event denote an
event-level evaluation metric, such as event-levelF 1 or event-
level recall under a false-positive constraint. For a detector
backboneF θ and a transfer policyπ, the goal is to obtain a
trained or calibrated detectorF π
θ such that
Mevent(F π
θ ;D test)>M event(F real
θ ;D test)
when compatible synthetic evidence is beneficial, while
avoiding negative transfer when donor-recipient pairs are in-
compatible.
All donor selection, compatibility estimation, augmentation,
threshold calibration, and policy selection are performed using
only the training and validation splits. Test labels are used only
for final evaluation.
III. TIMEEVENTSYNTHFRAMEWORK
A. Overview
This section presents the TimeEventSynth framework for
detector-aware cross-series anomaly event augmentation. The
framework constructs a donor pool from visible anomaly
events in the training split, estimates donor-recipient compati-
bility, adapts accepted donor events to recipient event contexts,
and outputs synthetic anomaly windows under a specified
transfer policy.
The framework has three core components. First, it repre-
sents each labeled anomaly window as a transferable event
pattern. Second, it estimates donor-recipient compatibility
using event-shape, amplitude-scale, local-context, and group-
level signals. Third, it applies a transfer policyπto se-
lect donor events and construct synthetic anomaly windows.
The generated synthetic windows are then used for detector
training, threshold calibration, or synthetic-positive separation,
depending on the detector backbone.
Figure??summarizes the overall workflow. From the
limited labeled training data, the framework extracts real
anomaly windows and builds a donor event poolA. For a
recipient seriesX r, candidate recipient locations are selected
from normal or weakly labeled regions. Donor windows are
retrieved fromA, scored by compatibility, filtered or ranked
according to policyπ, and adapted into the recipient context
through a transfer operatorT. The output is a set of synthetic
anomaly windows eAr.
B. Event Representation and Donor Pool
For each time seriesX i, we extract labeled anomalous
regions as anomaly windows:
A ∗i=a∗i,1, a i,2, . . . , ai,Mi .

===== PAGE 4 =====
Each anomaly eventa i,j contains an anomalous subse-
quence and a local context window around it. We write
ai,j = (Xi[si,j :e i,j], qi,j),
whereX i[si,j :e i,j]is the anomalous segment andq i,j
denotes its event descriptor. The descriptor summarizes prop-
erties that are useful for transfer, including event length,
normalized shape, amplitude range, local mean and variance,
local trend, and group identity if available.
The normalized shape of an event is used to compare
anomaly patterns independently of their original scale. Letµ i,j
andσ i,j denote the local mean and standard deviation around
eventa i,j. We define the normalized event pattern as
pi,j = Xi[si,j :e i,j]−µ i,j
σi,j +ϵ .
The patternp i,j captures the relative anomaly shape, such
as a spike, drop, shift, or abnormal fluctuation. This represen-
tation allows a donor event to be adapted to a recipient series
with a different scale.
All labeled anomaly windows from the training split are
collected into a donor pool:
A=
N[
i=1
Ai.
Each donor event stores its source series, dataset or group
identity, normalized patternp i,j, local statistics, and descriptor
qi,j. The donor pool supports both within-group and cross-
group retrieval. Within-group retrieval prioritizes donors from
related series, while cross-group retrieval increases event
diversity by considering donors from different datasets or
domains.
For a recipient seriesX r, we exclude test information and
only use donor events available in the training split. This
ensures that augmentation does not leak test labels into training
or calibration.
C. Compatibility Scoring
A donor anomaly event should be transferred only when it
is plausible for the recipient series and local context. Given a
donor eventa d,j and a recipient locationℓ r,k in seriesX r, we
compute a compatibility score
C(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)∈[0,1].
This score combines four signals:
C=α sCshape +α aCamp +α cCcontext +α gCgroup,
whereC shape measures anomaly-shape similarity,C amp
measures amplitude compatibility,C context measures local
statistical compatibility, andC group measures group-level re-
latedness. The weights satisfyα s +α a +α c +α g = 1.
Shape compatibility compares the normalized donor
anomaly pattern with event patterns that are plausible for
the recipient series. Amplitude compatibility checks whether
the donor deviation can be rescaled to the recipient without
producing unrealistic values. Context compatibility measures
whether the recipient insertion location has a suitable local
baseline and variance. Group compatibility gives higher scores
when donor and recipient series belong to the same dataset,
domain, or statistical group.
A donor-recipient pair is accepted by a compatibility-filtered
policy only when
C(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)≥τ C,
whereτ C is a compatibility threshold. For softer policies,
Cis used as a ranking score rather than as a hard gate.
D. Donor Retrieval
For each recipient seriesX r, the framework constructs
recipient event contexts
L ∗r=ℓ∗r,1, ℓ r,2, . . . , ℓr,Kr .
from visible low-label anomaly windows in the training
split. For each locationℓ r,k, the framework retrieves candidate
donors from the donor pool according to policyπ:
R ∗r, k π =a∗d, j∈ A:a d,j satisfies policyπ.
Each candidate donor is scored usingC(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k). The
selected donor set is
S ∗r, k π =a∗d, j∈ R ∗r, k π :C(a∗d, j, X r, ℓr,k)≥τ π
C,
whereτ π
C may be zero for permissive policies and positive
for compatibility-filtered policies. If a policy uses top-m
retrieval instead of thresholding,S π
r,k contains themhighest-
scoring donors.
This step distinguishes cross-series augmentation from sim-
ple oversampling. Oversampling increases the number of
anomaly events but does not decide whether an event is
suitable for a recipient series. Compatibility-based retrieval
explicitly models this donor-recipient selection problem.
E. Event Adaptation and Synthesis
After candidate donors are selected for each recipient con-
text, TimeEventSynth adapts the donor patterns to the recipient
series and constructs the synthetic anomaly pool.
Letp d,j be the normalized donor pattern for donor event
ad,j, and letµ r,k andσ r,k denote the local mean and standard
deviation of recipient contextℓ r,k. The adapted anomaly
segment is constructed as
˜xr,k =µ r,k +β d,r,kσr,kpd,j,
whereβ d,r,k controls the anomaly strength and may be
bounded by the recipient amplitude range.
Each adapted segment forms a synthetic anomaly window:

===== PAGE 5 =====
˜ar,k = (˜xr,k,˜yr,k, cr,k, ηr,k),
where˜yr,k = 1indicates a synthetic anomaly label,c r,k is the
aggregate compatibility confidence score, andη r,k stores audit
metadata.
The augmented anomaly set for recipient seriesX r is
eAπ
r =A r ∪ {˜ar,k :a d,j ∈ S π
r,k, ℓr,k ∈ L r}.
The final synthetic pool for policyπis obtained by com-
bining all recipient-specific augmented sets:
eAπ =
N[
r=1
eAπ
r .
This process is intentionally lightweight: it reuses real
anomaly windows as templates and focuses on compatibility-
aware selection and recipient-specific adaptation. Optional
perturbations such as small temporal shifts, noise, or amplitude
jitter can be added, but they are not the central contribution.
IV. TRANSFERPOLICIES
A transfer policyπdefines how candidate donors are
retrieved, filtered, and selected for each recipient event context.
We evaluate the following policies.
•No Augmentation.Only visible real training data are
used.
•Random Augmentation.Visible anomaly windows are
oversampled without compatibility-aware cross-series
transfer.
•Groupwise All-Donor Transfer.Donor events are re-
trieved within the permitted groupwise donor pool with-
out compatibility filtering.
•Groupwise Compatible Transfer.Donor events are re-
trieved within the groupwise donor pool and retained
when they satisfy the compatibility criterion.
•Groupwise Strict Transfer.Donor events are retrieved
within the groupwise donor pool using a stricter compat-
ibility threshold or selection rule.
•Detector-Family Heuristic Adaptive Transfer.The pol-
icy selects a transfer strategy according to detector-
family heuristics, with fallback relaxation when too few
synthetic windows are generated.
These policies span simple data expansion to controlled
transfer. Comparing them helps determine whether perfor-
mance gains arise from more synthetic data, cross-series
diversity, or compatibility-aware donor selection.
V. DETECTORINTERFACE ANDOPTIMIZATION
TimeEventSynth exposes a detector-aware interface rather
than enforcing a single training procedure for all anomaly
detectors. The role of synthetic windows depends on the
detector backbone.
A. Confidence Scores for Filtering and Auditing
For each generated synthetic event, TimeEventSynth records
component-wise compatibility scores and an aggregate confi-
dence score over event shape, amplitude scale, local context,
and group-level relatedness. The aggregate score is used for
filtering, ranking, and auditing synthetic events. It is not
assumed to be consumed by all detector backbones as a train-
ing weight. When a supervised backbone supports weighted
training, the score may be optionally mapped to a sample
weight; otherwise, it is used outside detector fitting, such as
for calibration analysis or synthetic-pool diagnostics.
B. Detector-Aware Training and Calibration
The generated synthetic windows are used according to
the detector backbone. For supervised or semi-supervised
detectors that support positive anomaly training, synthetic
windows can be added as additional positive examples. In this
case, the augmented objective can be written as
L(θ) =
X
(x,y)∈Xreal
ℓ(Fθ(x), y)+λsyn
X
(˜x,˜y)∈eXπ
ω(˜x)ℓ(Fθ(˜x),˜y),
whereλ syn controls the influence of synthetic positives. The
weightω(˜x)is optional and is used only when the detector
implementation supports weighted supervised training.
For score-based or unsupervised detectors, TimeEventSynth
does not require refitting the detector on synthetic positives. In-
stead, the detector first produces anomaly scores, and synthetic
windows may be used for threshold calibration or synthetic-
positive separation. LetS syn be the score set on synthetic
anomaly windows andS norm be the score set on normal
validation windows. When this calibration mode is enabled,
the threshold is selected to separate synthetic positives from
normal validation regions. This gives synthetic events a cali-
bration role even when the detector itself is not trained with
anomaly labels.
This detector-aware design is necessary because augmen-
tation does not affect all backbones in the same way. Some
detectors may benefit from broader synthetic diversity, while
others can be sensitive to synthetic distribution shift. There-
fore, TimeEventSynth evaluates multiple transfer policies in-
stead of assuming a single universal augmentation rule.
C. Algorithm
Algorithm 1 summarizes the full pipeline. The method
first extracts visible anomaly windows from the training split
and builds the donor pool. For each recipient series, it con-
structs recipient event contexts from visible low-label anomaly
windows and retrieves donor events according to policyπ.
Each candidate donor is scored by compatibility. Accepted
donors are adapted into the recipient context and added to the
synthetic pool. Finally, the detector uses the synthetic pool
according to its backbone-specific interface.
Example.Consider two sensor time series in the training
split. In the donor series, a short spike is visible as a labeled
anomaly event. In the recipient series, only a small number
of anomaly windows are visible. TimeEventSynth treats these

===== PAGE 6 =====
Algorithm 1:Compatibility-Aware Cross-Series Event
Augmentation
Input:Training time seriesD train, visible anomaly
windowsA vis, transfer policyπ, detector
backboneF θ
Output:Synthetic anomaly pool eAπ and trained or
calibrated detectorF π
θ
1Extract visible anomaly windowsA vis
i from each
training seriesX i;
2Build donor poolA donor =S
i Avis
i ;
3Initialize eAπ ← ∅;
4foreachrecipient seriesX r do
5Construct recipient event contextsL vis
r from visible
low-label anomaly windows;
6foreachrecipient contextℓ r,k ∈ L vis
r do
7Retrieve candidate donorsR π
r,k under policyπ;
8Compute compatibilityC(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)for
each donora d,j ∈ R π
r,k;
9Select accepted donorsS π
r,k by thresholding or
ranking;
10foreachaccepted donora d,j ∈ S π
r,k do
11Construct synthetic window
˜ar,k =T(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k);
12Record aggregate confidence score and
audit metadata;
13Add˜a r,k to eAπ;
14Use eAπ according to the detector interface: training
for compatible supervised backbones, or
calibration/separation for score-based backbones;
15return eAπ andF π
θ
visible recipient windows as event contexts and evaluates
whether the donor spike is compatible with each context in
event shape, amplitude scale, local context, and group-level
relatedness. If the compatibility score is high, the normalized
donor spike is rescaled using the recipient context statistics and
stored as a synthetic anomaly event. If the score is low, the
donor-recipient pair is rejected or ranked below more plausible
donors. Thus, the framework reuses real anomaly patterns
across series while reducing the risk of negative transfer.
VI. ANALYSIS
The proposed augmentation framework is not intended to
guarantee that every synthetic event improves every detector.
Instead, its purpose is to reduce the risk of harmful cross-series
transfer. We provide a simple analysis to clarify this design
goal.
Consider a donor eventa d,j transferred to recipient series
Xr at locationℓ r,k. LetZ= 1denote the event that the
transferred window is a valid anomaly for the recipient context,
and letZ= 0denote an invalid or harmful transfer. The
compatibility scoreC(a d,j, Xr, ℓr,k)estimates the plausibility
of this transfer. We assume that compatibility is calibrated in
the following weak sense: transfers with higher compatibility
are less likely to be invalid. That is,Pr(Z= 0|C=c)is
non-increasing withc.
Under this assumption, applying a compatibility threshold
τC reduces the expected synthetic-label noise rate:
Pr(Z= 0|C≥τ C)≤Pr(Z= 0).
This inequality does not imply that every accepted synthetic
event is correct. Rather, it states that compatibility filtering
improves the quality of the synthetic pool in expectation by
removing donor-recipient pairs that are more likely to cause
negative transfer.
This analysis also explains why augmentation is detector-
dependent. The effect of synthetic data can be viewed as a
tradeoff between coverage gain and transfer error. LetR real be
the detector risk using only real data andR aug be the risk after
augmentation. Informally, augmentation is beneficial when
Raug ≤R real −∆ coverage + ∆noise + ∆shift,
where∆ coverage denotes the benefit from additional
anomaly patterns,∆ noise denotes the cost of invalid synthetic
labels, and∆ shift denotes the cost of distribution mismatch
between synthetic and real windows. Therefore, augmentation
is expected to help when
∆coverage >∆ noise + ∆shift.
Compatibility-aware and groupwise transfer reduce∆ noise
and∆ shift by filtering, ranking, or restricting implausible
donor-recipient pairs. However, different detector backbones
may have different sensitivity to the same synthetic pool.
Density-based and tree-based detectors may benefit from
compatible synthetic windows that improve anomaly cover-
age, while some sequence models may be more sensitive to
synthetic distribution shift. Thus, the framework should be
understood as a controlled augmentation layer rather than a
universally improving detector.
VII. EVALUATION
In this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of
TimeEventSynth as a synthetic event transfer framework for
low-label time-series anomaly detection. We seek to answer
the following research questions:
•RQ1: Can synthetic event transfer improve anomaly
detection performance compared with existing augmen-
tation strategies?
•RQ2: How do augmentation effects vary across hetero-
geneous anomaly detectors?
•RQ3: Does TimeEventSynth remain effective under low-
label settings?
•RQ4: What are the contributions of compatibility-aware
transfer, groupwise event modeling, and detector-family
heuristic adaptive transfer?

===== PAGE 7 =====
TABLE I: Controlled TSB-UAD-Public-v2 dataset statistics.
Domain Series Train Val Test
Genesis 4 2 1 1
IOPS 7 5 1 1
MSL 17 12 2 3
NAB 20 14 2 4
TODS 15 10 2 3
Total 63 43 8 12
A. Experiment Setup
a) Benchmark.:We evaluate TimeEventSynth on con-
trolled subsets of TSB-UAD-Public-v2, a heterogeneous time-
series anomaly detection benchmark containing time series
from multiple source datasets and application domains. To
reduce domination by large domains, we apply balanced per-
domain sampling. Our main controlled setting contains five
domains, namely Genesis, IOPS, MSL, NAB, and TODS, with
63 time series after balancing. For robustness, we also report a
100-series-capped controlled protocol, which contains 41 time
series after balancing. Table I reports the main benchmark
statistics.
b) Low-label setting:We focus on a low-label setting
where only 20% of labeled anomaly events in the training split
are visible for training and augmentation. The donor pool for
synthetic event transfer is constructed only from visible labeled
events in the training split, preventing leakage from validation
or test labels. All results are averaged over five random split
seeds,{0,1,2,3,4}, and we report mean performance across
seeds.
c) Detector backbones:We evaluate TimeEventSynth
with seven heterogeneous detector backbones: Isolation For-
est (IForest), Local Outlier Factor (LOF), One-Class SVM
(OCSVM), AutoEncoder, CNN, a TimesNet-style sequence
backbone, and a supervised low-label classifier. This design
allows us to examine detector-dependent augmentation effects
across heterogeneous detector families.
d) Augmentation policies:We compare No Augmenta-
tion, Random Augmentation, and multiple TimeEventSynth
variants. No Aug. uses only visible real training data. Ran-
dom Aug. oversamples labeled anomaly windows without
compatibility-aware transfer. TimeEventSynth variants include
groupwise all-donor transfer, groupwise compatible transfer,
groupwise strict transfer, and an adaptive policy that selects a
detector-family-specific transfer strategy.
e) Metrics:We use event-level metrics as the primary
evaluation criterion because time-series anomalies are usually
contiguous events. We report Event-F1, event precision, event
recall, and the number of false-positive events. False-positive
events are explicitly reported because synthetic augmentation
can improve recall by producing overly sensitive thresholds.
Point-level metrics and threshold diagnostics are used as
secondary evidence.
B. Main Results
We first report the performance of the default adaptive
TimeEventSynth policy. Unlike post-hoc policy selection, the
adaptive policy is fixed before evaluation according to the
detector family. In our implementation, density-based detectors
use groupwise compatible transfer, while trainable or broad-
capacity detectors use groupwise all-donor transfer. Therefore,
this setting reflects the deployable TimeEventSynth configura-
tion rather than a test-set-selected policy.
Table II shows that the default adaptive TimeEventSynth
policy improves over No Augmentation on five out of seven
detectors and over Random Augmentation on five out of
seven detectors. The largest gains are observed on LOF, Au-
toEncoder, CNN, and the supervised classifier. However, the
improvement is not universal: Adaptive TES underperforms
Random Augmentation on IForest and OCSVM, and does not
exceed No Augmentation on TimesNet. These results show
that synthetic event transfer is beneficial for most backbones,
but its effect is detector-dependent.
C. Policy-Family Analysis
We next analyze the TimeEventSynth policy family.
Table III reports the upper envelope among evaluated
TimeEventSynth-family policies for each detector. This table
should not be interpreted as the performance of a single
deployable policy. Instead, it is a post-hoc policy sensitivity
analysis that quantifies the best attainable Event-F1 within the
evaluated policy family.
Under detector-wise post-hoc policy selection,
TimeEventSynth-family variants improve over No
Augmentation on five out of seven detectors and over
Random Augmentation on six out of seven detectors. The
largest absolute gain over No Augmentation is observed
on AutoEncoder, where Event-F1 increases from 0.0038
to 0.0623. The largest gain over Random Augmentation
is observed on LOF, where Event-F1 increases from
0.0033 to 0.0698. This result supports the claim that the
TimeEventSynth policy family contains useful augmentation
strategies for most detector backbones, while also showing
that the preferred transfer policy varies across detectors.
Table IV shows that the upper-envelope gains are not always
obtained by simply increasing detector sensitivity. For IForest,
AutoEncoder, CNN, and TimesNet, the selected Best TES
policy improves or preserves Event-F1 while reducing false-
positive events compared with Random Augmentation. In con-
trast, LOF and the supervised classifier obtain higher Event-F1
with more false positives, indicating a recall-oriented trade-off.
OCSVM does not benefit from the selected TimeEventSynth-
family policy under this comparison.
Table V provides a policy-level ablation of the evaluated
TimeEventSynth variants. TES-Compatible ties for the best
LOF result and achieves the best results for AutoEncoder
and CNN, confirming the benefit of compatibility-aware donor
selection. TES-Strict performs best for IForest and matches the
best TimesNet result, suggesting that stricter donor filtering

===== PAGE 8 =====
TABLE II: Main results of the default adaptive TimeEventSynth policy on the controlled TSB-UAD-Public-v2 setting. Deltas
are computed from unrounded values before formatting.
Detector No Aug. Random Aug. Adaptive TES∆vs No Aug.∆vs Random
IForest 0.0051 0.0242 0.0122 +0.0071 -0.0121
LOF 0.0383 0.0033 0.0698 +0.0315 +0.0665
OCSVM 0.0121 0.0128 0.0116 -0.0005 -0.0012
AutoEncoder 0.0038 0.0475 0.0594 +0.0556 +0.0119
CNN 0.0051 0.0414 0.0503 +0.0452 +0.0089
TimesNet 0.0134 0.0046 0.0099 -0.0035 +0.0054
Supervised 0.0737 0.0944 0.1037 +0.0300 +0.0093
TABLE III: Detector-wise upper envelope of the TimeEventSynth policy family. Best TES is selected post hoc among evaluated
TimeEventSynth-family policies and is used only for policy sensitivity analysis. Deltas are computed from unrounded values
before formatting.
Detector No Aug. Random Aug. Best TES TES Policy∆vs No Aug.∆vs Random
IForest 0.0051 0.0242 0.0276 TES-Strict +0.0225 +0.0033
LOF 0.0383 0.0033 0.0698 TES-Adaptive +0.0315 +0.0665
OCSVM 0.0121 0.0128 0.0121 TES-Strict +0.0000 -0.0007
AutoEncoder 0.0038 0.0475 0.0623 TES-Compatible +0.0586 +0.0148
CNN 0.0051 0.0414 0.0565 TES-Compatible +0.0514 +0.0151
TimesNet 0.0134 0.0046 0.0134 TES-Strict +0.0000 +0.0089
Supervised 0.0737 0.0944 0.1037 TES-Adaptive +0.0300 +0.0093
TABLE IV: False-positive-aware comparison between the
detector-wise Best TES policy and Random Augmentation.
Negative FP change means fewer false-positive events.
Detector∆Event-F1∆FP Events
IForest +0.0033 -69.4
LOF +0.0665 +187.2
OCSVM -0.0007 +19.2
AutoEncoder +0.0148 -167.0
CNN +0.0151 -33.0
TimesNet +0.0089 -22.0
Supervised +0.0093 +85.6
can reduce harmful transfers for sensitive unsupervised de-
tectors. TES-Adaptive ties for the best LOF result and also
ties with TES-All for the best supervised result, but it is
not universally optimal. This suggests that adaptive policy
selection is useful, while more fine-grained detector-specific
policy learning remains a promising direction.
a) Robustness on the 100-series controlled setting.:
We additionally evaluate a smaller controlled setting with 41
balanced time series over the same five domains and five
split seeds. In this setting, the best TimeEventSynth-family
policy improves over No Augmentation on five out of seven
detectors, ties OCSVM, and underperforms No Augmentation
on the supervised classifier. Compared with Random Aug-
mentation, it improves on six out of seven detectors. The
largest gains are observed on AutoEncoder, with a +0.0510
improvement over No Augmentation, and on the supervised
classifier, with a +0.0309 improvement over Random Aug-
mentation. This secondary result supports the robustness of
TimeEventSynth across controlled subset sizes, while also
showing that detector-specific behavior remains important.
b) Answer to RQ3.:The current experiments evaluate
a fixed 20% low-label setting. Therefore, the results support
that TimeEventSynth is effective under low-label supervision,
but they do not by themselves establish that the benefit
monotonically increases as the label fraction decreases. We
report this as evidence under low-label supervision and leave
a full label-fraction sweep as an additional study.

===== PAGE 9 =====
TABLE V: Policy ablation measured by Event-F1.
Detector No Aug. Random TES-All TES-Compatible TES-Strict TES-Adaptive
IForest 0.0051 0.0242 0.0054 0.0122 0.0276 0.0122
LOF 0.0383 0.0033 0.0232 0.0698 0.0470 0.0698
OCSVM 0.0121 0.0128 0.0045 0.0116 0.0121 0.0116
AutoEncoder 0.0038 0.0475 0.0594 0.0623 0.0393 0.0594
CNN 0.0051 0.0414 0.0503 0.0565 0.0531 0.0503
TimesNet 0.0134 0.0046 0.0099 0.0134 0.0134 0.0099
Supervised 0.0737 0.0944 0.1037 0.0804 0.0700 0.1037

ERRORS:
fitz: No module named 'fitz'